\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename mpfc.info
@settitle MPFC 2.0
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual describes the SG Music Player For Linux Console, version 2.0

Copyright @copyright{} 2003-2014 by Sergey Galanov.
@end copying

@titlepage
@title SG MPFC
@subtitle Music Player For Linux Console
@author Sergey E. Galanov

@c The following two commands start the copyright page
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@end titlepage

@c Output the table of contents at the beginning
@contents

@ifinfo
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top MPFC 2.0

This manual documents version 2.0 of SG MPFC, media player for Linux console.

Copyright @copyright{} 2003-2014 SG Software

@menu
* Introduction::		
* Getting Started::	
* Using Variables::
* Plugins::		
* Copying::	
@end menu
@end ifinfo

@node Introduction, Getting Started, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction to MPFC

MPFC is an abbrevation for Music Player For Console. It is a gstreamer-based audio player with curses interface featuring:

@itemize
@item Support for all popular formats and output systems (by virtue of gstreamer);
@item Standard playlist paradigm;
@item Windowed text user interface;
@item Full cuesheet support;
@item Integrated tags editor;
@item Remote control for Android;
@item High configurability.
@end itemize

To get a brief help on MPFC commands you may press @kbd{?} key in MPFC 
main window.

Turn to the following sections to learn about MPFC features in greater detail.

Note that the commands that are given further are named by the keys you type
to enter them but you may change these keys (@pxref{Key bindings}).

@node Getting Started, Using Variables, Introduction, Top
@chapter Getting started with MPFC

@menu
* Launching MPFC::
* Moving around::
* Playing files::
* Playlist management::
* Window system::
* Other features::
@end menu

@node Launching MPFC, Moving around, Getting Started, Getting Started
@section Launching MPFC
To launch MPFC type:

@example
mpfc [options] [files]
@end example

Here [options]
is a list of variables you set directly (@pxref{Using Variables}) and [files]
is a list of files you want to play. For example, to play file song.mp3 and all
files found recursively under directory artist_dir type:

@example
mpfc file.mp3 artist_dir
@end example

For more info on how file adding behaves see @pxref{Add/remove}.

File list may be empty, this means
you will either continue playing the previous play list (if the respective
option is set), or start with an empty play list.

If you want to exit MPFC use command @kbd{q}.

@node Moving around, Playing files, Launching MPFC, Getting Started
@section Moving around
As soon as you have launched MPFC you will notice that the largest part of 
the screen is occupied by the play list. This is a list of all songs you can
play. Also you will notice a long line from left side of the screen to the
right side that selects one of the songs. This is cursor. It is used to 
select songs for various manipulations (e.g. playing them). Here are methods
you can use to move cursor within playlist.

@menu
* Basic cursor movement operations::
* Search::
* Marks::
@end menu

@node Basic cursor movement operations, Search, Moving around, Moving around
@subsection Basic cursor movement operations
Basic operations are the following:

@kbd{j} or @kbd{@key{Down}}: move cursor one line lower;

@kbd{k} or @kbd{@key{Up}}: move cursor one line higher;

@kbd{d} or @kbd{@key{PageDown}}: move cursor one screen lower;

@kbd{u} or @kbd{@key{PageUp}}: move cursor one screen higher;

@kbd{G}: move cursor to any specified line (see further);

@kbd{C}: move cursor to the currently playing song.

There is a feature with these commands. You may specify a repeat value before
any of them (except for C of course) and it will result in repeating the
command this number of times. For G command this value has a slightly different
meaning---it is the number of line you want to move to (without repeat value
@kbd{G} moves to the playlist end). 
To specify this value simply print it before the
command. As soon as you start entering digits, a prompt will appear and you
will be able to correct your input or even cancel entering this value by 
pressing @kbd{@key{CTRL}-g}. For example, to move 5 lines down type: @kbd{5j}, and to 
move to the 30-th line of playlist type: @kbd{30G}.

@node Search, Marks, Basic cursor movement operations, Moving around
@subsection Search
You can move to a position in playlist also by searching by a string. There
are two types of search: simple and advanced. Simple search is invoked by
@kbd{/} command. You will be prompted for the string. When you enter a string
MPFC will search for a song with title containing this string and move 
cursor to the first match. 

Advanced search is invoked by @kbd{\} command. It allows searching not only
by the song title but also by other song information parameters 
(@pxref{Song Info}), so you will be prompted for the search criteria and then
for the string.

After doing search you can move to the next or previous match by using
commands @kbd{n} and @kbd{N} respectively.

To make search case-sensitive unset variable ``search-nocase'' 
(it is 1 by default).

@node Marks,, Search, Moving around
@subsection Marks
What if you have a large playlist and move periodically between some places
in its different parts? That's where marks are used.

You can store cursor position in any of 26 marks by using command 
@kbd{m<Letter>}, where <Letter> is a letter from a to z naming the mark. To 
move to mark <Letter> command @kbd{`<Letter>} is used. Also there is a special
mark---`. You can't set it directly but it always points to your last position
so if you want to return to it type: @kbd{``}.

@node Playing files, Playlist management, Moving around, Getting Started
@section Playing files
@menu
* Play/pause/stop::
* Play modes::
* Boundaries::
* Time back::
* Volume::
@end menu

@node Play/pause/stop, Play modes, Playing files, Playing files
@subsection Play/pause/stop
There are four basic playing commands:

@kbd{@key{RET}}: starts playing currently selected song;

@kbd{x}: plays currently playing song from beginning (if it is playing now) or 
resumes playing after a pause or a stop;

@kbd{c}: pause/unpause;

@kbd{v}: stops playing.

Also you can jump to the next or previous songs. This is done by commands
@kbd{b} (next) and @kbd{z} (previous).

If you want to move within currently playing song use commands @kbd{<} and 
@kbd{>} 
for moving 10 seconds back or forth and command @kbd{gt} to move to any 
specified position (these commands support repeat values, for @kbd{gt} its
meaning is the same as for @kbd{G}, @pxref{Basic cursor movement operations}).

@node Play modes, Boundaries, Play/pause/stop, Playing files
@subsection Play modes
Normally after the song you specified to play finishes MPFC begins to play 
the next song in playlist and so on until it reaches the playlist end when it
stops. 

This behaviour may be changed by setting any of two play modes: shuffle or 
loop. In shuffle mode (@kbd{R} command) the next song to play is selected by
random. In loop mode (@kbd{L} command) the play order is as in the normal mode
but MPFC begins playing from the beginning when it reaches end. Also you may
set these modes by variables ``shuffle-play'' and ``loop-play'' 
(@pxref{Using Variables}).
 
@node Boundaries, Time back, Play modes, Playing files
@subsection Boundaries
Normally the beginning of playlist is the first song and the end is the last 
one. But you can change them by setting boundaries. First select a playlist
area in visual mode (@pxref{Visual mode}). Then you can use one of two commands:

@kbd{ps}: sets the boundaries respectively to your selection;

@kbd{p@key{RET}}: the same as previous but also begins playing the selection.

To clear boundaries use command @kbd{pc}.

@node Time back, Volume, Boundaries, Playing files
@subsection Time back
Time back is a feature in MPFC that helps you to return to the place in song
where you have been the last time before jump (not that here manual jump is
meant, e.g. with a @kbd{@key{RET}} command). To do it use command 
@kbd{@key{BS}}.

@node Volume,, Time back, Playing files
@subsection Volume
You can see current volume slidebar in the top right corner of the screen.
To increase or decrease volume use @kbd{-} and @kbd{+}. Volume modification
is done in cubic steps, so for example setting volume to 50% makes sound
output 8 times quieter.

@node Playlist management, Window system, Playing files, Getting Started
@section Playlist management
@menu
* Visual mode::
* Add/remove::
* File browser::
* Save::
* Sort::
* Move::
* Undo::
* Song Info::
@end menu

@node Visual mode, Add/remove, Playlist management, Playlist management
@subsection Visual mode
Many commands (e.g. sort) may affect a group of songs. MPFC allows you to
make continuous selections (starting from one song and ending with another).
To make such a selection place cursor in one of the selection boundaries, then
switch to the visual mode (by @kbd{V} command) and move cursor to another bound.
You can use any of the cursor movement commands. After the selection is made 
you can switch back to normal mode (by entering this command one more time).

@node Add/remove, File browser, Visual mode, Playlist management
@subsection Add/remove
Besides adding songs from command line you can do it after MPFC has launched
using the 'Add song' dialog. To display it press @kbd{a}. Name autocompletion
(using @kbd{@key{TAB}} key) is supported. Name may also feature standard shell
wildcards (thus multiple files may be added from a single dialog).
The subsections below describe various types of objects which can be added.

Remove command (@kbd{r}) removes the currently selected group of files.

@menu
* Regular files and directories::
* URIs::
* Playlists::
* Smart directory adding::
@end menu

@node Regular files and directories, URIs, Add/remove, Add/remove
@subsection Regular files and directories
The simplest song to add is a regular file. MPFC supports files of all formats
supported by your GStreamer installation provided they have appropriate
extensions. The list of extensions recognized by MPFC is displayed in the log (@pxref{Log}).
You can add support for additional formats by installing plugins to GStreamer.
This is out of MPFC's scope.

If you add a directory, all regular files, playlists and subdirectories found within it
will be added. You can skip hidden files (with names starting with a dot) by setting
``skip-hidden-files'' variable.

@node URIs, Playlists, Regular files and directories, Add/remove
@subsection URIs
You can add songs identified by GStreamer URIs (i.e. with a prefix), for example:
``http://somewhere'', or ``cdda://1''.

@node Playlists, Smart directory adding, URIs, Add/remove
@subsection Playlists
MPFC supports several popular play list formats, namely m3u, pls and cue.
There is also a handy virtual play list type for adding all tracks of
an Audio CD: to do that just add ``audiocd://'' URI.

@node Smart directory adding,, Playlists, Add/remove
@subsection Smart directory adding
Often a directory would contain duplicate items: regular files (or a single
CD image) and playlist (or even multiple playlists, e.g. cue and m3u).
To prevent adding duplicates, MPFC has a smart mode, activated by setting
``smart-dir-add'' variable (by default it is disabled).

In this mode, if a
playlist is found inside a directory, nothing else would be added. If 
there are multiple playlists, the one with the biggest rank is added
(or the first encountered if ranks are equal). Ranks are determined on
a per-type basis. By default all ranks are zero, but you can increase
the rank of you favorite playlist type, for example:

@example
# In ~/.mpfc/mpfcrc
plugins.plist.cueplist.rank = 1
@end example

Here ``cueplist'' is the name of playlist plugin for cue files.

@node File browser, Save, Add/remove, Playlist management
@subsection File browser
File browser is a special tool created to help you adding files to the play
list. Launch it using @kbd{B} command. To select/deselect file press
@kbd{@key{INSERT}} key. Also you may select or deselect a group of files
matching a specified pattern. To do this press @kbd{+} (for select) or
@kbd{-} (for deselect) key and enter the pattern. After you have selected
the files you can add them to play list by pressing @kbd{a} or @kbd{r} key.
The latter one also clears the existing play list. You may press
@kbd{h} to go to your home directory, @kbd{@key{BACKSPACE}} to go to the
parent directory or @kbd{@key{c}} to manually specify a directory you want
to move to. 

File browser always is in one of two modes: normal or song info. In normal 
mode file names are displayed. In song info mode some parts of song info
are displayed. To control what parts exactly and screen space reserved for
them you can use special window styles (@pxref{Styles}): ``fname-len'' 
(for file name), ``title-len'' (for song name), ``artist-name'' (for artist), 
``album-len'', ``year-len'', ``genre-len'', ``comments-len'',
``track-len'' and ``time-len'' (for song length). Note that these fields
appear exactly in this order and you can't change it. To switch between normal
and song info modes press @kbd{i}.

You can navigate in a directory more easily using search mode. To set it
press @kbd{s} key and enter name of file (or its title if you are in
info mode) you want to jump to. As you will type the name cursor will move
to the respective file. If you want to stop this process press 
@kbd{@key{CTRL}-G}.

To exit browser press @kbd{q}.

@node Save, Sort, File browser, Playlist management
@subsection Save
To save playlist use @kbd{s} command. You will be prompted for file name.
It must end with ``.m3u'' or ``.pls'' extension, so you can save playlist
in any of these two formats.

@node Sort, Move, Save, Playlist management
@subsection Sort
To sort playlist use command @kbd{S}. First you will be asked whether to sort
globally or not. If you choose global sorting the entire playlist will be
sorted, otherwise---only the current selection. Then you specify the sort 
criteria (by title, file name, path and file name or path and track) and the 
sorting is done.

Also you can tell MPFC to do sorting automatically on loading songs. Set 
``sort-on-load'' variable to do this. By default sorting by title is done, but
you may change this behaviour with ``sort-on-load-type'' variable 
(``sort-by-title'', ``sort-by-file-name'', ``sort-by-path-and-file'' and
``sort-by-path-and-track'' values).

@node Move, Undo, Sort, Playlist management
@subsection Move 
You may move a part of playlist. To do this select this part and use one of
the three movement commands:

@kbd{J}: move selection one line down;

@kbd{K}: move selection one line up;

@kbd{M}: move selection to any specified poisition.

Note that these commands support repeation value specification 
(@pxref{Basic cursor movement operations}). For @kbd{M} command this value
meaning is the same as for @kbd{G}.

@node Undo, Song Info, Move, Playlist management
@subsection Undo
MPFC supports undo playlist management actions history. Undoable actions are
the following: add/remove songs, sort and move playlist. To undo action use
@kbd{U} command and to redo---@kbd{D} command.

@node Song Info,, Undo, Playlist management
@subsection Song Info
Each song may have some information associated with it. This information
include: song, artist and album names, year, track number, song genre and 
comments. The song format must support setting these fields in order you
can make advantage of them (e.g. for MP3 this information is written in its
ID3 tag). 

You can view and edit this information using song info editor dialog. To 
call it place cursor to the song and use @kbd{i} command. 
You can also edit info for multiple songs. To do it select these songs in
visual mode and answer ``No'' to the appearing question. The dialog
will appear (if the format allows you). Then you will be able to change its
contents by setting focus to the respective edit box (press @kbd{@key{TAB}}
several times to reach it). If you want to save changes press @kbd{@key{RET}},
otherwise press @kbd{@key{CTRL}-G}. If some of the selected songs have different
values for an info field it will remain the same unless you change it. If you
change any field its value will be saved to each of the selected songs.

You may change songs title accordingly to their info. To do it you must change
``title-format'' variable value (@pxref{Using Variables}). Its value may be any
string including some format sequences:

%p means artist name;

%a means album name;

%f means file name;

%F means full file name (with path);

%e means file extension;

%t means song name;

%n means track number;

%y means song year;

%g means song genre;

%c means song comments.

The default value is ``%p - %t'' that means that title contains artist and 
song names divided by dash sign.

There is a command that reloads all selected playlist songs 
information---@kbd{I}.

@node Window system, Other features, Playlist management, Getting Started
@section Window system
@menu
* Overview::
* Using dialogs::
* Styles::
* Key bindings::
* Other window system features::
@end menu

@node Overview, Using dialogs, Window system, Window system
@subsection Overview
MPFC has an advanced window system. Please note that MPFC does not support
non-UTF8 locales. If you have such a locale, non-ASCII characaters (including
pseudo-graphics) will be displayed incorrectly. Also please note that
most window system key bindings use @key{ALT} key which may conflict with
your window manager.

When you start MPFC there always appears
play list window. As a result of some events there can appear other windows
(e.g. file browser, help screen or various dialogs). 

All the top-level windows are listed in a special place on the root window
which is called ``window bar'' and situated on the last line of the screen.
Currently active (``focused'') window is marked with green color. To move
between windows you press @kbd{@key{ALT}-,} or @kbd{@key{ALT}-.} keys. You
may also select a window by clicking mouse left button its image on the 
window bar.

Most of the windows have a border with controls on it. These controls are
a close window button (presented by ``x'' letter) and maximize button
(``o'' letter). Use them by clicking mouse or pressing buttons 
@kbd{@key{ALT}-c} and @kbd{@key{ALT}-m} respectively.

Windows are often resizable and movable. To turn window to the
resize mode press @kbd{@key{ALT}-s}, to the move mode--@kbd{@key{ALT}-p}.
After that window border will turn its color to green and you'll be able
to change size/position of the window using arrow keys. Then press 
@kbd{@key{ENTER}} to finish operation.

@node Using dialogs, Styles, Overview, Window system
@subsection Using dialogs
Dialogs are widely used in MPFC for operations where user input is required.
There is number of special keys for navigating through the dialog items.
First of all, you can use @kbd{@key{TAB}} key to move to the next item.
But in big dialogs it is better to use special shortcuts to items. Many of
the items have a letter associated with them. This letter is usually marked
red on the label. When you press @kbd{@key{ALT}} with this letter you
jump to it.

Also there are @kbd{@key{ENTER}} key connected with the ``OK'' button and
@kbd{@key{CTRL}-G} or @kbd{@key{ESCAPE}} connected with the ``Cancel'' button.

@node Styles, Key bindings, Using dialogs, Window system
@subsection Styles
Window system display parameters are highly configurable. This configuration
is implemented with a concept of a style.

Style is a parameter of some item of the interface. In fact it is a 
variable (@pxref{Using Variables}) that you may set as you always do. 
Usually it represents color and symbol attribute of the text. In that case
variable value has the following format: <color>[:bg-color[:attrib]].
Color is one of the following values: ``black'', ``red'', ``green'', ``blue'',
``yellow'', ``magenta'', ``cyan'' and ``white''. ``attrib'' field is a
combination (delimited by a comma) of the following values: ``standout'',
``underline'', ``reverse'', ``blink'', ``dim'', ``bold'', ``protect'',
``invis'' and ``altcharset''. Note that not all of these attributes are
supported on your terminal. In fact you usually will use only ``bold'' and,
maybe, ``blink''.

Before listing style names a note on window classes should be made. Any window
belongs to some class. All these classes make an hierarchy. The main purpose
of the classes is to let the user configure styles of a group of similar 
windows (e.g edit boxes). 

Root configuration list where all the window system related variables are
holded is ``windows''. It has child list ``classes''. This list has many
child lists for each of the available classes.

When MPFC searches for a style for a particular window it first seeks for 
a variable of the name same with the style name in the window configuration
list. In fact, this list is not (yet) accessible for a user, so it does not
make much sense. Then it searches for this variable in the window class 
configuration list, then in that class parent class list, and so on, until
it reaches the base window system configuration list. If it is not found
there, style is undefined (value for an undefined style is ``white:black'').
So, for example, if you want all the edit boxes to display their text
bold green with red background you should set variable 
``windows.classes.editbox.text-style'' to ``green:red:bold''.

You may unite a set of styles into a style scheme. To do this
create a file in @file{~/.mpfc/colors} directory. The name of this file is
the name of scheme. This file may contain any of the variable operations
you may use in configuration file (although, you would probably list there
styles). To turn on a scheme set ``color-scheme'' variable to scheme name.

Here is a list of some window classes and their styles.

@menu
* basic::
* player::
* browser::
* help::
* logger_view::
* dialog::
* dlgitem::
* listbox and combo::
@end menu

@node basic, player, Styles, Styles
@subsection basic
``basic'' class is the base window class. It defines the following styles:

@itemize
@item caption-style;
@item border-style;
@item repos-border-style;
@item maximize-box-style;
@item close-box-style;
@item wndbar-focus-style;
@item text-style;
@item focus-text-style.
@end itemize

@node player, browser, basic, Styles
@subsection player
``player'' class is class of the player window. Styles:

@itemize
@item plist-style: style of play list item;
@item plist-playing-style: style of play list item currently being played;
@item plist-selected-style: style of a selected play list item;
@item plist-sel-and-play-style: combination of the previous two;
@item plist-time-style: style of play list item time;
@item title-style: current song title style;
@item time-style: current time style;
@item audio-params-style: audio parameters style;
@item about-style: about string style;
@item slider-style: sliders style (for time and volume);
@item play-modes-style: ``Loop'' and ``Shuffle'' strings style;
@item status-style: status line style.
@end itemize

@node browser, help, player, Styles
``browser'' class is class of file browser window. Styles:

@itemize
@item file-style;
@item cur-file-style;
@item dir-style;
@item cur-dir-style;
@item selection-style;
@item cur-selecton-style;
@item search-prompt-style;
@item search-string-style;
@item title-style;
@item header-style.
@end itemize

@node help, logger_view, browser, Styles
``help'' class is class of help screen. Styles:

@itemize
@item item-style;
@item prompt-style.
@end itemize

@node logger_view, dialog, help, Styles
``logger_view'' is child of ``scrollable'' class. Styles of ``scrollable'':

@itemize
@item scroll-arrow-style;
@item scroll-bar-style;
@item scroll-slider-style.
@end itemize

Styles of ``logger_view'':

@itemize
@item logger-normal-style;
@item logger-status-style;
@item logger-warning-style;
@item logger-error-style;
@item logger-fatal-style;
@item logger-debug-style.
@end itemize

@node dialog, dlgitem, logger_view, Styles
``dialog'' class is class of dialogs. It has no specific styles.

@node dlgitem, listbox and combo, dialog, Styles
``dlgitem'' class is class of various dialog items. It has many child classes:
``button'', ``editbox'' (with ``filebox'' and ``combo'' children), ``listbox'',
``label'', ``radio'', ``checkbox'', ``hbox'' and ``vbox''.

@node listbox and combo,, dlgitem, Styles
@itemize
@item list-style: 
style of list item highlighted by cursor in a not-focused window;
@item focus-list-style: the same but in a focused window.
@end itemize

@node Key bindings, Other window system features, Styles, Window system
@subsection Key bindings
MPFC features configurable key bindings. This is achieved in a way similar to
the styles (@pxref{Styles}) mechanism. In fact, key bindings may be 
considered also styles with names starting with ``kbind.''.

The value of a key binding consists of a list of respective keys. Particular
keys in this list are delimited with a ``;''. To specify a normal key you
use its respective character. To specify a special key use its textual 
representation in angle brackets (e.g. ``<F1>'', ``<Return>'', ``<Left''>). 

Full list of the special keys may be found in terminfo(5) manpage. There is
a table of capabilities. You need keypad capabilities (with their names in
the first column starting with ``key_'' prefix). Textual representation of
a special key may be retrieved by throwing this prefix away (e.g. 
``key_dc'' leads to ``dc''). Also there are some aliases: ``delete'' or ``del''
is the same as ``dc'', ``insert'' or ``ins'' is the same as ``ic'', 
``pageup'' is the same as ``ppage'', ``pagedown'' is the same as ``npage'').
Also there are some keys not included into that list: ``tab'', ``space'',
``escape'', ``enter'' and ``return'' (the latter two represent the same key).

Besides that you can use control and alt combinations. They are represented
also in angle brackets with names starting with ``ctrl-'' and ``alt-'' 
(e.g. ``<ctrl-a>'' or ``<alt-w>'').

To use ``<'' and ``>'' directly specify a ``\'' in front of them. The 
same with using ``\'' itself. Note that expressions inside angle brackets
are case-insensitive, so that ``Left'' is the same with ``LEFT'' (although
this is not the case with an alt combination, for key after ``-'' is a
key you press, thats why ``Alt-a'' and ``Alt-A'' are different).

Note also that key binding actually is not one key but key sequence, so that
you may set it to, for example, ``tt''. Then to perform respective action
you must press ``t'' key twice.

When making your own key bindings ``add'' and ``rem'' variables operations
are useful. Consider setting a binding for moving cursor in play list down.
Default binding is ``j;<Ctrl-n>;<Down>'' and it is stored in 
``windows.classes.player.kbind.move_down'' variable. You type the following
line in your configuration file:

@example
windows.classes.player.kbind.move_down = "."
@end example

But then other keys (``j'' and others) for this binding will be removed. 
Usually this is not a desired behaviour. So you should type this:

@example
windows.classes.player.kbind.move_down += "."
@end example

Sometimes you can see that setting a key binding doesn't work. It may be
because of conflicting a key in your binding with this key in some other
(default) binding. So you should remove the key from the latter binding:

@example
windows.classes.player.kbind.screen_down -= "d"
windows.classes.player.kbind.move_down += "d"
@end example

You may unite a set of key bindings into a kbind scheme. To do this
create a file in @file{~/.mpfc/kbinds} directory. The name of this file is
the name of scheme. This file may contain any of the variable operations
you may use in configuration file (although, you would probably list there
kbind variables operations). To turn on a scheme set ``kbind-scheme'' variable
to scheme name.

Here is the list of available key bindings for various window classes.

@menu
* basic keybinds::
* player keybinds::
* browser keybinds::
* help keybinds::
* logger_view keybinds::
* dlgitem keybinds::
* button keybinds::
* radio keybinds::
* checkbox keybinds::
* editbox keybinds::
* filebox keybinds::
* combo keybinds::
* listbox keybinds::
@end menu

@node basic keybinds, player keybinds, Key bindings, Key bindings
@subsection basic keybinds
@itemize
@item refresh_screen: refresh the screen (default is ``<Ctrl-l>'');
@item close_window: close the window (default is ``<Alt-c>'');
@item maximize_window: toggle window maximization state (default is 
``<Alt-m>'');
@item move_window: start window moving (default is ``<Alt-p>'');
@item resize_window: start window resizing (default is ``<Alt-s>'');
@item next_focus: set focus to the next window (default is ``<Alt-.>'');
@item prev_focus: set focus to the previous window (default is ``<Alt-,>'').
@end itemize

@node player keybinds, browser keybinds, basic keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection player keybinds
@itemize
@item quit: quit MPFC (default is ``q;Q'');
@item move_down: move play list cursor down (default is ``j;<Ctrl-n>;<Down>'');
@item move_up: move play list cursor up (defaut is ``k;<Ctrl-p>;<Up>'');
@item screen_down: move play list cursor one screen down (default is 
``d;<Ctrl-v>;<PageDown>'');
@item screen_up: move play list cursor one screen up (default is
``u;<Alt-v>;<PageUp>'');
@item move_to_begin: move play list cursor to the beginning (default is
``gg;<Ctrl-a>;<Home>'');
@item move_to_end: move play list cursor to the end (default is 
``<End>;<Ctrl-e>'');
@item move: move play list cursor to any position (default is ``G'');
@item start_play: start playing (default is ``Return'');
@item play: resume playing/play from the beginning (default is ``x'');
@item pause: pause/resume playing (default is ``c'');
@item stop: stop playing (default is ``v'');
@item prev: play previous song (default is ``z'');
@item next: play next song (default is ``b'');
@item time_fw: seek song forward (default is ``\>;lt'');
@item time_bw: seek song backwards (default is ``\>;ht'');
@item time_long_fw: seek song forward 1 minute (default is ``<Right>;lT'');
@item time_long_bw: seek song backwards 1 minute (default is ``<Left>;hT'');
@item time_move: seek to any position in the song (default is ``gt'');
@item vol_fw: increase volume (default is ``+;lv'');
@item vol_bw: decrease volume (default is ``-;hv'');
@item info: launch song info dialog (default is ``i'');
@item add: launch song adding dialog (default is ``a'');
@item rem: remove song (default is ``r'');
@item save: launch play list saving dialog (default is ``s'');
@item sort: launch play list sorting dialog (default is ``S'');
@item plugins_manager: launch plugins manager (default is ``P'');
@item visual: toggle visual mode (default is ``V'');
@item centrize: centrize view (default is ``C'');
@item search: launch search dialog (default is ``/'');
@item advanced_search: launch advanced search dialog (default is ``\\'');
@item next_match: move to the next search match (default is ``n'');
@item prev_match: move to the previous search match (default is ``N'');
@item help: launch help screen (default is ``?'');
@item shuffle: toggle shuffle mode (default is ``R'');
@item var_manager: launch variable manager (default is ``o'');
@item plist_down: shift play list item down (default is ``J'');
@item plist_up: shift play list item up (default is ``K'');
@item plist_move: move play list item (default is ``M'');
@item undo: undo last action (default is ``U'');
@item redo: redo last undone action (default is ``D'');
@item reload_info: reload song info (default is ``I'');
@item set_play_bounds: set playing boundaries (default is ``ps'');
@item clear_play_bounds: clear playing boundaries (default is ``pc'');
@item play_bounds: play inside playing boundaries (default is ``p<Return>'');
@item exec: execute an external command (default is ``!'');
@item goback: return to the last play list position (default is 
``@verb{|``|}'')
@item time_back: return to the last song position (default is ``<Backspace>'');
@item queue: queue the song under cursor (default is ``'@w{}'');
@item file_browser: launch file browser (default is ``B'');
@item log: open logger window (default is ``O'');
@item marka, @dots{}, markz: remember cursor position (defaults are ``ma'',
@dots{}, ``mz'');
@item goa, @dots{}, goz: go to respective mark (defaults are ```a'',
@dots{}, ```z'').
@end itemize

@node browser keybinds, help keybinds, player keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection browser keybinds
@itemize
@item quit: close browser (default is ``q;<Escape>'');
@item move_up: move cursor up (default is ``k;<Up>;<Ctrl-p>'');
@item move_down: move cursor down (default is ``j;<Down>;<Ctrl-n>'');
@item screen_up: move cursor screen up (default is ``u;<PageUp>;<Alt-v>'');
@item screen_down: move cursor screen down (default is 
``d;<PageDown>;<Ctrl-v>'');
@item move_to_start: move cursor to the beginning (default is 
``<Ctrl-a>;<Home>'');
@item move_to_end: move cursor to the end (default is ``<Ctrl-e>;<End>'');
@item go_to_dir: go to currently selected directory (default is ``<Enter>'');
@item go_to_home: go to home directory (default is ``h'');
@item go_to_parent: go to parent directory (default is ``<Backspace>'');
@item add_to_playlist: add selected files to play list (default is ``a'');
@item replace_playlist: replace play list witht the selected files 
(default is ``r'');
@item toggle_info: toggle info move (default is ``i'');
@item change_dir: launch change directory dialog (default is ``c'');
@item select: select highlighted file (default is ``<Insert>'');
@item select_pattern: select files matching a pattern (default is ``+'');
@item deselect_pattern: deselect files matching a pattern (default is ``-'');
@item help: launch help screen (default is ``?'').
@end itemize

@node help keybinds, logger_view keybinds, browser keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection help keybinds
@itemize
@item quit: close window (default is ``q;<Escape>'');
@item next_page: show next page (default is ``<Enter>;<Space>'').
@end itemize

@node logger_view keybinds, dlgitem keybinds, help keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection logger_view keybinds
@itemize
@item quit: close window (default is ``q;<Escape>'');
@item scroll_up: scroll up (default is ``k;<Up>;<Ctrl-p>'');
@item scroll_down: scroll down (default is ``j;<Down>;<Ctrl-n>'');
@item screen_up: scroll one screen up (default is ``u;<PageUp>;<Alt-v>'');
@item screen_down: scroll one screen down (default is 
``<Space>;d;<PageDown>;<Ctrl-v>'');
@item scroll_to_start: scroll to the beginning (default is 
``g;<Ctrl-a>;<Home>'');
@item scroll_to_end: scroll to the end (default is ``G;<Ctrl-e>;<End>'').
@end itemize

@node dlgitem keybinds, button keybinds, logger_view keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection dlgitem keybinds
@itemize
@item next: move to the next item (default is ``<Tab>'');
@item ok: press dialog ``OK'' button (default is ``<Enter>'');
@item cancel: press dialog ``Cancel'' button (default is ``<Escape>;<Ctrl-g>'').
@end itemize

@node button keybinds, radio keybinds, dlgitem keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection button keybinds
@itemize
@item click: click button (default is ``<Space>'').
@end itemize

@node radio keybinds, checkbox keybinds, button keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection radio keybinds
@itemize
@item check: check the radio button (default is ``<Space>'');
@item move_to_next: move to next button in the group (default is 
``<Down>;<Ctrl-n>;j'');
@item move_to_prev: move to previous button in the group (default is 
``<Up>;<Ctrl-p>;k'').
@end itemize

@node checkbox keybinds, editbox keybinds, radio keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection checkbox keybinds
@itemize
@item toggle: toggle checkbox state (default is ``<Space>'').
@end itemize

@node editbox keybinds, filebox keybinds, checkbox keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection editbox keybinsd
@itemize
@item move_left: move cursor left (default is ``<Left>;<Ctrl-b>'');
@item move_right: move cursor right (default is ``<Right>;<Ctrl-f>'');
@item word_left: move cursor one word left (default is ``<Alt-b>;<SLeft>'');
@item word_right: move cursor one word right (default is ``<Alt-f>;<SRight>'');
@item del_left: delete character to the left (default is ``<Backspace>'');
@item del_right: delete character under cursor (default is ``<Del>;<Ctrl-d>'');
@item kill_to_start: delete text from cursor to the start (default is 
``<Ctrl-u>'');
@item kill_to_end: delete text from cursor to te end (default is 
``<Ctrl-k>'');
@item move_to_start: move cursor to the beginning (default is 
``<Home>;<Ctrl-a>'');
@item move_to_end: move cursor to the end (default is ``<End>;<Ctrl-e>'');
@item history_prev: insert previous history entry (default is 
``<Up>;<Ctrl-p>'');
@item history_next: insert next history entry (default is ``<Down>;<Ctrl-n>'').
@end itemize

@node filebox keybinds, combo keybinds, editbox keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection filebox keybinds
@itemize
@item complete: do name completion (default is ``<Tab>'').
@end itemize

@node combo keybinds, listbox keybinds, filebox keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection combo keybinds
@itemize
@item move_down: move cursor down (default is ``<Down>;<Ctrl-n>'');
@item move_up: move cursor up (default is ``<Up>;<Ctrl-p>'');
@item screen_down: move cursor one screen down (default is 
``<PageDown>;<Ctrl-v>'');
@item screen_up: move cursor one screen up (default is
``<PageUp>;<Alt-v>'');
@item toggle_expansion: expand/reduce list (default is ``<Ctrl-e>'').
@end itemize

@node listbox keybinds,, combo keybinds, Key bindings
@subsection listbox keybinds
@itemize
@item move_down: move cursor down (default is ``<Down>;<Ctrl-n>;j'');
@item move_up: move cursor up (default is ``<Up>;<Ctrl-p>;k'');
@item screen_down: move cursor one screen down (default is 
``<PageDown>;<Ctrl-v>;d'');
@item screen_up: move cursor one screen up (default is
``<PageUp>;<Alt-v>;u'');
@item move_to_start: move cursor to list beginning (default is
``<Ctrl-a>;<Home>;g'');
@item move_to_end: move cursor to list end (default is
``<Ctrl-e>;<End>;G'');
@item select_item: select list item (default is ``<Space'');
@end itemize

@node Other window system features,, Key bindings, Window system
@subsection Using terminal background
Sometimes you want to use background color of your terminal instead of
default MPFC background (black). To do this set ``force-terminal-bg''
variable to 1. Then all the colors with black background will be treated as
colors with default terminal background.

@node Other features,, Window system, Getting Started
@section Other features
@menu
* Command execution::
* Log::
* History::
* Setting mouse parameters::
@end menu

@node Command execution, Log, Other features, Other features
@subsection Command execution
You are able to execute an external command when you are in MPFC. To do this
use @kbd{!} command. You will be prompted for the command. After you finish
press @kbd{@key{RET}} to return to MPFC.

@node Log, History, Command execution, Other features
@subsection Log
MPFC has a log system. You may view log messages in two places. First is
@file{~/.mpfc/log} file (this name may be changed by setting ``log-file''
variable). Second is logger view window. It is activated by pressing
@key{O} key. 

An important issue concerning the log system is log level. It is set with
``log-level'' variable and it controls the amount of messages you get. 
Possible values for it are: ``none'', ``low'', ``default'', ``high'' and
``debug'' (there is a little use from the latter for a common user, though).

@node History, Setting mouse parameters, Log, Other features
@subsection History
Some edit boxes when you do input support history so that you can restore
any of the strings you have entered there before. To jump between these
strings press @kbd{@key{Up}} for going back and @kbd{@key{Down}} for going 
forth.

@node Setting mouse parameters,, History, Other features
@subsection Setting mouse parameters
MPFC tries to guess the type of mouse driver by the name of terminal it is
running on. But it can do it wrong, so you may specify this type explicitly.
Use variable ``mouse'' for this purpose. It may have one of the following
values: ``none'' (no mouse is used), ``gpm'' (use gpm---this is normally
used when you run MPFC on console) and ``xterm'' (on xterm-like terminal).

@node Using Variables, Plugins, Getting Started, Top
@chapter Variables usage

MPFC supports variables that allow you to control some of its options. 
These variables are organized into configuration lists. Each list can
have variables and other lists in it. Variables and lists have their names.
If a variable/list is not in the top-level list its ancestors names are
delimited with ``.'' (e.g. ``windows.classes.kbind.move_down'').
Each variable has a value associated with it. This value is a string. 
If variable
is not set its value is considered to be ``0''. Also you can simply ``set''
variable so that its value becomes ``1''. These two values are often used
when specifying a choice result. ``0'' means ``no'' and ``1'' means ``yes''.
So when variable is not set, its value respects to ``no'' and when it is
set---to ``yes''.

@menu
* Setting variables::
* List of options::
@end menu

@node Setting variables, List of options, Using Variables, Using Variables
@section Setting variables
You may set a variable in three different places.

The first is any of MPFC configuration files (@file{/etc/mpfcrc} and
@file{~/.mpfc/mpfcrc}).  In this file each variable
is specified in its own line in the format: <variable>[<operation><value>], 
where ``variable'' is variable name, ``operation'' is one of the following
symbol sequences: ``='', ``+='', ``-='', and ``value'' is variable value.
You may skip the second part of this expression, then variable will be 
set to ``1''. ``#'' in the line beginning starts a comment.

Value may be in one of two forms. First consists of characters that will be
literally used as the value. This sequence of characters is bounded by
whitespaces, so you can't use whitespaces in these values. In second form
you place the value inside double quotes, so that there is no such restriction.
Also in that form you may use special characters: ``\n'' (new line), 
``\t'' (tabulation), ``\e'' (escape), ``\"'' (double quote itself), 
``\\'' (backslash).

Operation type points to what will be done with the value. Assignment (``='')
simply assigns variable this value. Addition (``+='') replaces current 
value with the value ``<current value>;<specified value>'' (it is used
primarily for setting key bindings @pxref{Key bindings}). Removal (``-='')
is opposite for addition.
Besides main configuration file you can use a local configuration file in 
the current directory. Its name is also @file{.mpfcrc} but settings from it
override the settings from the main file. 

You may include a separate file with ``include(<file_name>)''.

Also there is a special feature called list operator. It is used when you
have to set many variables stored in deep-leveled lists. You write name of
the list in square brackets and then variable on the next line will use this
name as its parent. Certainly, you won't often use list operator for setting
a single variable, so you would unite multiple lines in blocks using braces.

Here is a short example of MPFC configuration file:

@verbatim
# MPFC configuration file
lib-dir=/usr/local/lib/mpfc
gstreamer.audio-sink = alsasink
play-from-stop

include(some_file)

[windows.classes.player]
{
	plist-style = "red:green:blink"
	time-style = "white:black"

	[kbind]
	{
		move_down += "."
		move_up -= "k"
	}
	kbind.screen_up = w
}

# Include statement is one line, so list operator is applied to all of 
# the lines inside that file
[windows.classes.browser]
include(my_browser_styles)
@end verbatim

The second place where you can set variable is command line when you invoke
MPFC (@pxref{Launching MPFC}). The format is the same with the configuration
file but you must add prefix ``@verb{--}'' before each definition. 

Also there is a way to specify include-file from the command line. Use 
``-f <name>'' or ``-ff <name>'' for that. First uses file 
@file{~/.mpfc/<name>}, while second uses name as the real file name.
Here is an example:

@example
mpfc --lib-dir=/usr/local/lib/mpfc --gstreamer.audio-sink=alsasink --play-from-stop 
-f some_file list.m3u
@end example

The third place is while running MPFC. It has a variable manager invoked
by @kbd{o} command. There you set variable name, value and operation you
want to perform, press ``OK'' button, and variable will be set.

@node List of options,, Setting variables, Using Variables
@section List of options

Here is a list of MPFC configuration options. Note that plugin or
window system specific options are not present here. Look for them in the
respective sections of manual.

@table @option
@item autosave-plugins-params
Automatically save plugins parameters (default is 1)
@item convert-underscores2spaces
Convert underscores to spaces in songs titles (default is 0)
@item log-file
Log file path
@item log-level
Log level (@pxref{Log})
@item loop-play
Turns on loop play mode (default is 0)
@item play-from-stop
At the beginning play from the point you stopped last time (default is 1)
@item remote-dir-root
Root directory for file browsing in the remote control (unset by default)
@item save-playlist-on-exit
Save play list on exit (default is 1)
@item search-nocase
Make play list search case-insensitive (default is 1)
@item server-port and server-port-pool-size
Port range where server tries to listen to remotes (by default 10 ports starting with 19792 are tried)
@item show-time-remaining
Show remaining song time instead of play time (default is 0)
@item shuffle-play
Turns on shuffle play mode (default is 0)
@item skip-hidden-files
Don't add hidden files (default is 0)
@item smart-dir-add
Smart directory adding (default is 0; see @pxref{Smart directory adding})
@item sort-on-load
Sort play list after loading (default is 0)
@item sort-on-load-type
Type of sort on load (``sort-by-path-and-file'', ``sort-by-title'', 
``sort-by-file-name'' or ``sort-by-path-and-track'')
@item title-format
Format of song title (@pxref{Song Info})
@item view-follows-cur-song
If current song escapes view, centrize it automatically (default is 1)
@end table

@node Plugins, Copying, Using Variables, Top
@chapter Plugins usage

In the old versions (pre 2.0) MPFC had a system of plugins which handled
all sound processing. Now that GStreamer is used they are no longer needed.
The only type of plugins in use today is playlist plugins for parsing
various playlist file formats (e.g. m3u or cue).

Plugins are stored commonly in @file{/usr/lib/mpfc/} or 
@file{/usr/local/lib/mpfc}.
Playlist plugins are stored in the @file{plist} subdirectory.
Each plugin is a shared 
library (.so file). To install plugin simply copy it to the directory.

Plugins have special configuration lists hierarchy. Root list is ``plugins''.
It has children for each of plugin types (only ``plist'' for now).
Configuration for a speficic plugin is stored in list with 
name same with plugin name and placed in respective list (e.g. 
``plugins.plist.cueplist.rank'').

@kbd{P} key launches the Plugins manager dialog where you can view the 
loaded plugins list along with their descriptions.

@node Copying,, Plugins, Top
@chapter Copying information
MPFC is licensed under GNU GPL license. To read it view @file{COPYING} file in
MPFC distribution.

@bye
