.TH MPFC 1 "4 July 2003" "Version 0.1" "MPFC Manual Page"
.SH NAME
MPFC \- Music Player For Console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpfc 
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIfiles\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIMPFC\fR is the Music Player For Console. It is used to play audio files
in console text mode. 
.SH OPTIONS
MPFC options are variables that you may set to any values. If variable
is not set it is assumed to be equal to "0". If variable exists (is declared),
but has no value its value is assumed to be equal to "1" (e.g. you may
write 'silent_mode=1' or simply 'silent_mode' - the result would be the same).
You may set variables in three places: in file \fI~/.mpfcrc\fR, in file 
\fI./.mpfcrc\fR or in command line (e.g. mpfc --silent_mode=1). They are read
in the same order (so if you write "silent_mode" in \fI~/.mpfcrc\fR and 
set this variable to "0" in command line, its value will be "0").
Options supported now are:
.TP
\fBoutput_plugin\fR	
The output plugin. Default is "oss".
.TP
\fBsilent_mode\fR
Play silently (i.e. don't make any audio output). Default is "0".
.TP
\fBequalizer_off\fR
Turn off equalizer. Default is "0".
.TP
\fBeq_preamp, eq_band<NUM>\fR
Preamp and bands values for equalizer.
.TP
\fBenable_effect_<NAME>\fR
Enable effect plugin <NAME>.
.TP
\fBmp3_quick_get_len\fR
Get mp3 song length quickly but not very correctly (the result will
be improper for files with variable bitrate; in other cases - more or less
correct). Default value is "1".
.TP
\fBecho_surround_enable, echo_volume, echo_delay, echo_feedback\fR
Variables for echo effect plugin. Volume and feedback are in percents,
delay - in milliseconds. Initial values are: "0", "50", "500" and "50"
respectively.
.TP
\fBlib_dir\fR
Directory with plugins. Default is "/usr/local/lib/mpfc".
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.mpfcrc
MPFC configuration file
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by SG Software.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH AUTHORS
MPFC is written by Sergey E. Galanov.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <sgsoftware@mail.ru>.
